<!--
   Copyright (c) 2018, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
   Licensed under the Universal Permissive License v 1.0 as shown at http://oss.oracle.com/licenses/upl.
-->
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="root.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>

<body> 	

	<div><span id="jmc_welcome">
		Welcome to JDK Mission Control
	</span></div>
			
	<div><span id="jmc_title">
		What is JDK Mission Control?
	</span></div>
			
	<div><span id="client_title">
		The JDK Mission Control Client
	</span></div>

	<div><span id="console_title">
		The JMX Console
	</span></div>

	<div><span id="jfr_title">		
		The JDK Flight Recorder
	</span></div>
	
    <div><span id="plugins_title">
		And plug-ins...
	</span></div>
	
	<div><span id="gettowork_title">
        Click here to start using JDK Mission Control
    </span></div>

	<div><span id="console_info">
		The JMX Console is a tool for monitoring and managing a running JVM instance. 
		The tool presents live data about memory and CPU usage, garbage collections, thread activity, 
		and more. It also includes a fully featured JMX MBean browser that you can use to monitor 
		and manage MBeans in the JVM and in your Java application.
	</span></div>

	<div><span id="jfr_info">
		The JDK Flight Recorder produces detailed recordings 
		about the HotSpot JVM and the application it is running. You can analyze the recorded profile 
		offline using the Flight Recorder tool. Recorded data includes profiling of methods, locks and allocations, 
		as well as garbage collection statistics, optimization decisions, event latencies and more. 
	</span></div>

	<div><span id="jmc_info">	
		JDK Mission Control is a tool suite for managing, monitoring, profiling, and 
		troubleshooting your Java applications. When first installed, JDK Mission Control 
		consists of the JMX Console and the JDK Flight Recorder. More plug-ins can
		easily be installed from within Mission Control.
	</span></div>

	<div><span id="plugins_info">
		There are plug-ins available that extend the capabilities of Mission Control. They can
		all be installed from within Mission Control. Go to the Help->Install New Software menu to select plug-ins to install! 
		Here are some examples of available plug-ins:
	</span></div>	 

	<div><span id="client_info_s">
		The JDK Mission Control Client is the application from which you connect to a JVM and 
		launch the tools included in JDK Mission Control. 
	</span></div>

	<div><span id="console_info_s">
		Monitor and manage your Java application and the JVM at runtime.  
	</span></div>

	<div><span id="jfr_info_s">
		Record the behavior of the JVM at runtime and analyze the recording offline using the JDK Flight Recorder tool. 
	</span></div>

	<div><span id="plugins_info_s">
		Download and install various different specialized plug-ins to extend the functionality of Mission Control. 
	</span></div>	 

	<div><span id="console_help">
		JMX Console Help
	</span></div>

	<div><span id="jfr_help">		
		Flight Recorder Help
	</span></div>
	
	<div><span id="plugins_help">
		Plug-ins Help
	</span></div>
	
	<div><span id="console_samples">
		JMX Console Guided Tour
	</span></div>

	<div><span id="jfr_samples">		
		Flight Recorder Guided Tour
	</span></div>
	
	<div><span id="plugins_samples">
		Plug-ins Examples
	</span></div>

	<div><span id="console_sample1">
		Click Here to Connect a JMX Console to the JVM running Mission Control
	</span></div>

	<div><span id="console_overview_title">
		Get a Quick Overview
	</span></div>
			
	<div><span id="console_overview_text">
		View the most important information on the configurable Overview tab.
	</span></div>			
			
	<div><span id="console_mbeans_title">
		Browse MBeans and Create Triggers
	</span></div>		
			
	<div><span id="console_mbeans_text">
		Monitor and manage the JVM and your Java application through MBeans in 
		the MBean Browser, and define rules to trigger alerts on changes in MBean values.	
	</span></div>
	
	<div><span id="console_runtime_title">
		View Runtime Information
	</span></div>
	
	<div><span id="console_runtime_text">	
		Get detailed runtime information about system properties, memory management, Java threads and more.
	</span></div> 		
													
	<div><span id="jfr_autoanalysis_title">
		Automated Analysis
	</span></div>
			
	<div><span id="jfr_autoanalysis_text">
		Check the results from the automated analysis to find problems and gain insights into fixing them.
	</span></div>			

	<div><span id="jfr_custompages_title">
		Custom Pages
	</span></div>
			
	<div><span id="jfr_custompages_text">
		Create custom pages to optimize the visualization for your needs.
	</span></div>			
						
	<div><span id="jfr_details_title">
		View the Details
	</span></div>		
			
	<div><span id="jfr_details_text">
		View detailed information on memory usage, garbage collection, hot methods and classes, 
		threads, Java locks, and more.
	</span></div>
	
	<div><span id="joverflow_title">
		JOverflow
	</span></div>

	<div><span id="joverflow_text">	
		Analyze the contents of your heap to see if memory is unnecessarily being wasted. 
		The analysis will look for memory waste using various anti-patterns, such as duplicate strings and sparse/empty collections. 
	</span></div> 		

	<div><span id="weblogic_title">
		Weblogic Server Tab Pack for JFR
	</span></div>
	<div><span id="weblogic_text">
		Analyse the contents of Flight Recordings from Weblogic Server more efficiently with custom designed tabs for Weblogic. 
		A new tab group will be added to the Flight Recorder, which will allow you to look at database queries, EJB calls, servlet invocations and more.
	</span></div> 		

	<div><span id="quickstart">
		Quick Start Guide (TODO)
	</span></div>
	
		
	<div><span id="forums">
		Forums
	</span></div>	
	

</body>
</html>